speaking of Michigan yesterday hundreds
of people as joe said protested outside
the state capitol building in lansing
calling for an end to the state's
extended stay at home order dozens of
demonstrators chanting let us in managed
to push inside the state capitol several
protesters even tried to reach the House
floor where lawmakers were debating an
extension of governor Gretchen Whitmer
state of emergency many of them were
armed
a state police spokesman told NBC News
it is legal in Michigan to carry
firearms as long as it is done with
lawful a tent and the weapon is visible
local senator Dana Pole hankie was there
and tweeted this photograph praising the
sergeant's at arm's who were blocking
protesters from getting in lawmakers
have decided not to extend the state of
emergency for 28 days which removes the
ability for governor Whitmer to use her
emergency powers to use executive orders
during a crisis Reverend Sharpton's
stunning images out of the state of
Michigan we should say again what we've
been saying for a couple of weeks that
this is a very small group of protesters
most gun owners I talked to yesterday
most gun owners on social media said
they would never carry an ar-15 and try
to break in to the legislature in their
state capitol but there you have it
those are the protesters who Donald
Trump once said let's liberate the state
nor have we heard the president denounce
these armed protesters and and hear the
real outrage of people armed going to
the State Capitol to confront
legislators first of all we're talking
about the preserving of life these
governors that have had a stay-home
order doing it for our health we're not
talking about them doing something
punitive they're doing something that
would be preventive of people getting
very sick or in fact facing death
because we're still having thousands of
people die we're looking at 63,000
American deaths but I can only imagine
Joe and mica and Willie imagine if that
had been protesters on the Left going to
a state capital arm or black protesters
there would have been a
different reaction where are those that
would be calling for people that would
have to denounce them as rioters and the
mass arrests so the tolerance of this
kind of behavior and in the face of what
they're protesting is something amazing
to me by me carrying ar-15s into State
Capitol protesting provisions that the
White House themselves White House
medical professionals themselves said
were necessary to save lives this is a
unique look from a president who claims
to be in charge of the party of life
talking about quote liberating Michigan
it's another bad mistake though because
as we look at this small group as we
look at this extreme group of people
just to let you know how isolated they
are I'm reading from David Brooks column
today America is united right now in an
ABC News episode poli 98 percent of
Democrats 82 percent of Republicans
support social distancing rules that's
about nine and ten according to Yahoo
News ukhov survey ninety percent of
Americans think a second wave of the
virus would at least somewhat be likely
if the lock downs were ended today a Pew
survey found 89 percent 9 and 10 of
Republicans and Democrats support the
bipartisan federal aid packages
according to a USA Today poll increased
testing supported by 90 percent
temporary halting of immigration
supported by almost 80 percent
continuing to lock down through the end
of April almost 70 percent so Susan Dell
/ CEO you could go through all of these
poll numbers we've talked about it for
some time Donald Trump is trying to
create a wedge issue out of the pandemic
some of Donald Trump supporters online
in the media are trying to create a
wedge issue out of this pandemic that
has killed 63 thousand people
you can't have a you can't declare a
cultural war against a pandemic because
well the pandemic always wins and here
we have it again yesterday you know wait
that's not going to help Donald Trump no
it's not and it reminds me of the scene
in Jaws Joe when the mayor demands that
the beaches be open on the 4th of July
people are all out there they're afraid
to go in but finally this brave family
goes in and nothing happens so everyone
else goes in but what happens the Sharks
next door in the shallow Cove and that's
what I think we're going to see happen
as these states open up people are gonna
think it's ok to go out there and and
they're going to go further than they
should and we're gonna see this virus
come back with a vengeance it's just set
up for that the president if he wants to
quote win this war he should make sure
people stay healthy he should not be
encouraging people to open up their
states he should encourage them to
follow what dr. Falchi and others are
saying and guys I just want to remind
everyone how quickly this is moved you
pointed out it is made first let's look
back at a few milestones on March the
1st this is NBC News Talley the US case
is 89 unmarked the first of coronavirus
on April 1st 213,000 786 this morning as
we see here on May the 1st nearly 1.1
million cases of corona virus that's in
two months to go from 89 to 1.1 million
so that's just how quickly this can take
off it's how quickly this been spread
without social distancing and that's the
point that doctor foul he was trying to
make we've said a thousand times on this
show guys we are incredibly sensitive to
getting people back to work we know
everyone we have family members friends
we were worried about their small
businesses everybody wants to be back at
their job but you got to find that
balance of going back safely well you
know and and the thing is let me just
repeat it again all we're saying here is
listen to dr. Falchi listen to dr. Burks
listen to the guidelines put forward not
by Nancy Pelosi not by Chuck Schumer
not by left-wingers right not by the
Biden campaign but by the Trump
Whitehouse if they would just follow the
guidelines that were put forward by the
Trump White House you know we would see
I think America began to safely go back
to work try to avoid that second big way
but again Donald Trump puts down the
guidelines and then can't stay out of
his own way he starts talking about
liberating Michigan at the same time
he's criticizing other states that are
opening up so Mika there is no
consistency and as always Donald Trump
always tries to make this pandemic about
himself thanks for checking out MSNBC on
YouTube and make sure you subscribe to
stay up-to-date on the day's biggest
stories and you can click on any of the
videos around us to watch more four
Morning Joe and MSNBC thanks so much for
watching